integrated circuits in this module you
will learn about the types and
construction of ICS earlier the size of
computers used to be very big however
nowadays laptop computers and palmtop
computers are available wondering what
made the miniatures a ssin of electronic
gadgets possible
the answer is AI seats IC stands for
integrated circuits integrated circuits
IC have a big role to play in the
miniatures a ssin of electronic gadgets
earlier the electronic circuits were
prepared using transistors diodes and
resistors by joining those using
conducting wires because of this these
circuits were huge and bulky further
these circuits were not reliable so an
attempt was made to fabricate an entire
circuit consisting of many components
such as diodes resistors inductors
capacitors on a small single block of a
semiconductor connected with the help of
metal strips this gave rise to the
concept of integrated circuits IC I C's
are found in almost all gadgets like
cars televisions CD players and cell
phones the size of an IC is about one
millimeter by one millimeter being so
small in size ICS have made the
miniaturization of electronic gadgets
possible ICS can be grouped into
categories depending on the nature of
input signals they are a linear or
analog ICS and B digital ICS in linear
ICS the input signals are analog signals
which change smoothly and continuously
over a range of values between a maximum
and a minimum
in this case the output is almost
directly proportional to the input that
is it varies linearly with the input
operational amplifier is an example of
linear IC in digital ICS the input
signals are digital signals that have
only two values they contain circuits
such as logic gates based on the number
of logic gates present in it Digital ICS
can be further classified as SSI MSI LSI
and VLSI SSI small-scale integration has
less than 10 logic gates per square
millimeter MSI medium scale integration
chips have less than hundred logic gates
per square millimeter
LSI large-scale integration chips have
100 to 1000 logic gates per square
millimeter VLSI very large-scale
integration chips have more than 1,000
logic gates per square millimeter let us
now have a look at the steps followed in
the manufacturing of ICS firstly a wafer
of n-type semiconductor is taken and
photolithography technique is used in
this technique firstly a layer of
silicon dioxide insulator is coated over
it then a thin layer of photoresist and
material is placed over silicon dioxide
after this masking is done and
ultraviolet light is made incident on it
whenever the light is incident over the
photo resistive portion it becomes hard
and no chemical reaction can take place
over it next silicon dioxide is removed
with the help of the etching process
lastly the required impurities are added
the process is repeated to obtain
different geometries require to complete
a chip circuit design the internal
connection between the components is
made by passing alum
vaper the chip is enclosed in a
protective plastic case finally with the
help of thin aluminium leads the
connectors are taken out and this is how
the standard package IC is manufactured
this type of IC in which the entire
circuit is formed on a single silicon
crystal is called monolithic IC these
are the most widely used isyes large
number of monolithic IC is embedded on a
ceramic substrate is known as hybrid IC
let's recap icees integrated circuits
have made the miniaturization of
electronic gadgets possible ICS are
found in almost all gadgets like cars
televisions CD players and cell phones
ICS can be grouped into two categories
depending on the nature of input signals
a linear or analog I C's B digital ICS
in linear I sees the input signals are
analog signals which change smoothly and
continuously over a range of values
between a maximum and a minimum in
digital ICS the signals are digital
signals that have only two values they
contain circuits such as logic gates
based on the number of logic gates
present in it Digital ICS can be further
classified as SSI MSI LSI and VLSI to
manufacture I sees a wafer of
semiconductor is taken and the
photolithography technique is used this
type of IC in which the entire circuit
is formed on a single silicon crystal is
called monolithic IC large number of
monolithic IC is embedded on a ceramic
substrate is known as hybrid IC
[Music]